How to docker ubuntu (#291)
ros-planning/moveit2_tutorials: doc/how_to_guides/how_to_setup_docker_containers_in_ubuntu.rst

> How to Setup Moveit2 Docker Containers in Ubuntu

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How to Setup Moveit 2 Docker Containers in Ubuntu
```

=================================================
This guide will provide a walkthrough on how to get docker container with Moveit2 dependencies setup quickly.

> Provided in this guide is a script that will get you up and running in Moveit quickly!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It includes a script that will get you up and running in Moveit quickly!
```

This guide is intended for people who would like to have a separate environment for working with Moveit up and running quickly \
without having to do much configuring. In this guide, we will be setting up a ROS2 Galactic environment.

Learning Objectives
-------------------

- How to setup a docker environment using the provided script

Requirements
------------

- Ubuntu 20.04
- `Docker Installation for Ubuntu <https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/>`_

Steps
-----

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Install Docker (a link is available in the Requirements section) and be sure to follow the "Linux Postinstall" instructions. If you do not complete these additional steps you will need to preface all `docker` commands with `sudo`.
```

1. Open a terminal session and create an empty text file.
::

>   mkdir -p ~/Docker/scripts

Reviewer 2: I had to do this as two commands:

mkdir Docker
cd Docker
mkdir scripts
cd scripts

Reviewer 3: Is there any chance you are missing `-p` @jonathan-fries ?

  cd ~/Docker/scripts/

>   gedit start-docker.sh

Reviewer 3: I think it's better if we make people use this script as functions in their bashrc

> 2. Copy and paste the following script inside of the opened text file

Reviewer 3: I would recommend just pulling the script with wget instead of copy pasting

Author: @tylerjw where in this repo should I add the script? `/_scripts`?

                      --net=host \
                      --gpus all \
                      --env=NVIDIA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=all \
                      --env=NVIDIA_DRIVER_CAPABILITIES=all \
                      --env=DISPLAY \
                      --env=QT_X11_NO_MITSHM=1 \
                      -v /tmp/.X11-unix:/tmp/.X11-unix \
                      --name "$CONTAINER_NAME" \
                      "$IMAGE_NAME" \
                      /bin/bash
                  xhost -local:root 1>/dev/null 2>&1
              else
                  # Start without GPU
                  echo "Opening up the docker container without GPU support"
                  printf "\n"
                  xhost +local:root &> /dev/null
                  docker run -it --privileged \
                      --net=host \
                      --env=DISPLAY \
                      --env=QT_X11_NO_MITSHM=1 \
                      -v "/tmp/.X11-unix:/tmp/.X11-unix" \
                      --name "$CONTAINER_NAME" \
                      "$IMAGE_NAME" \
                      /bin/bash
                  xhost -local:root 1>/dev/null 2>&1
              fi
          fi
      fi
  fi

>  There are 3 parameters for the script.

Reviewer 2: This shows up included in the script block on the page for me - and it shouldn't be there.

  - name_of_the_container : this is the name you wish to give the created container
  - name_of_the_image : if you are creating a fresh docker container, provide the name of the docker image here
  - using_gpu : if `true`, the docker will be run using nvidia gpu drivers. By default, this value is true.

> 3. Running the script

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Run the script
```

> 

Reviewer: I think we need to tell the user to make the script executable

```suggestion
chomd +x start-docker.sh
```

> 

Reviewer 2: I had to do a chmod on the script to make it executable.

To run the script and use nvidia gpu drivers
::

>     ~/Docker/scripts/start-docker.sh moveit2-galactic moveit/moveit2:galactic-source

Reviewer 2: I get permission denied errors when trying to run this.  I don't know the sudo password for the machine so perhaps that would bypass that problem.  Perhaps everyone in the Linux world knows to do this?  It wasn't obvious to me.

Reviewer: I think having a note near the top would help for this. Something along the lines of step 1: ensure you've installed docker and completed the Linux Postinstall steps. If you do not complete these additional steps you'll need to preface docker commands with sudo

> 

Reviewer: Should have some instruction here on what to do if the above fails. They'll need to remove the container they just made to run the next command

```suggestion
If the above command fails, you are likely not using nvidia drivers. You'll need to remove the container you just created
`docker rm moveit2-galactic`
```

To run the docker without nvidia drivers
::
    ~/Docker/scripts/start-docker.sh moveit2-galactic moveit/moveit2:galactic-source false

> 4. You should now be inside of your docker container, in the workspace directory. You should now be able to start working with Moveit!

Reviewer 3: It is good to add here that people don't have to use the second argument (image name). After the first run. the first `~/Docker/scripts/start-docker.sh moveit2-galactic moveit/moveit2:galactic-source` creates a container named moveit2-galactic. After the container is created users can just run the container with `~/Docker/scripts/start-docker.sh moveit2-galactic`

How to Setup Moveit 2 Docker Containers in Ubuntu
=================================================

> This guide will provide a walkthrough on how to get docker container with Moveit 2 dependencies setup quickly.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This guide will provide a walkthrough on how to get a Docker container with MoveIt 2 dependencies setup quickly.
```

It includes a script that will get you up and running in Moveit quickly!

> This guide is intended for people who would like to have a separate environment for working with Moveit up and running quickly \

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This guide is intended for people who would like to have a separate environment for working with MoveIt up and running quickly \
```

without having to do much configuring. In this guide, we will be setting up a ROS2 Galactic environment.

Learning Objectives
-------------------

> - How to setup a docker environment using the provided script

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- How to setup a Docker environment using the provided script
```

Requirements
------------

- Ubuntu 20.04
- `Docker Installation for Ubuntu <https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/>`_

Steps
-----
1. Install Docker (a link is available in the Requirements section) and be sure to follow the `Linux Post Install <https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/linux-postinstall/#manage-docker-as-a-non-root-user>`_ instructions. If you do not complete these additional steps you will need to preface all ``docker`` commands with ``sudo``.

2. Open a terminal session and create an empty text file.

  .. code-block:: bash

    mkdir -p ~/Docker/scripts
    cd ~/Docker/scripts/

> 3. Fetch docker script and make it executable

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
3. Download the Docker script and make it executable.
```

Reviewer 3: The user also needs to install nvidia-docker2 if they are going to use NVIDIA GPU

  .. code-block:: bash

    wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ros-planning/moveit2_tutorials/how-to-docker-ubuntu/_scripts/start-docker.sh
    chmod +x ~/Docker/scripts/start-docker.sh

> 4. Run the script

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
4. Run the script.
```

  There are 3 parameters for the script.
     - name_of_the_container : this is the name you wish to give the created container
     - name_of_the_image : if you are creating a fresh docker container, provide the name of the docker image here

>      - using_gpu : if ``true``, the docker will be run using nvidia gpu drivers. By default, this value is true.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
     - using_gpu : if ``true``, the docker will be run using Nvidia GPU drivers. By default, this value is true.
```

>      - name_of_the_container : this is the name you wish to give the created container
>      - name_of_the_image : if you are creating a fresh docker container, provide the name of the docker image here
>      - using_gpu : if ``true``, the docker will be run using nvidia gpu drivers. By default, this value is true.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
     - `name_of_the_container` : this is the name you wish to give the created container
     - `name_of_the_image` : if you are creating a fresh docker container, provide the name of the docker image here
     - `using_gpu` : if ``true``, the docker will be run using nvidia gpu drivers. By default, this value is true.
```

>   To run the script and use nvidia gpu drivers

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  To run the script and use Nvidia GPU drivers:
```

Reviewer 4: It might be a nice idea to put the script usage here in the tutorial so readers can map the parameters to the example commands below.

  .. code-block:: bash

>     ~/Docker/scripts/start-docker.sh moveit2-galactic moveit/moveit2:galactic-source

Reviewer 4: It might help to spell out what this does exactly, maybe something along the lines of:

> This command creates a container named `moveit2-galactic` using the `moveit/moveit2:galactic-source` image.

>   If either of the above command fails, you are likely not using nvidia drivers. You'll need to remove the container you just created ``docker rm moveit2-galactic``

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  If either of the above command fails, you are likely not using Nvidia drivers. You'll need to remove the container you just created ``docker rm moveit2-galactic``
```

>   To run the docker without nvidia drivers

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  To run the docker without the Nvidia drivers:
```

  .. code-block:: bash

    ~/Docker/scripts/start-docker.sh moveit2-galactic moveit/moveit2:galactic-source false

>   After running the script for the first time, you only would need to

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  After running the script for the first time, you only would need to:
```

Or maybe, to be a bit more descriptive:

```suggestion
  Running the script for the first time creates the container for you. After this, you only would need to start the container with:
```

  .. code-block:: bash

    ~/Docker/scripts/start-docker.sh moveit2-galactic

> 5. You should now be inside of your docker container, in the workspace directory. You should now be able to start working with Moveit!

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
5. You should now be inside of your Docker container, in the workspace directory. You should now be able to start working with MoveIt!
```

Further Reading
---------------

> - For more information about Docker best practices with respects to Moveit,

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- For more information about Docker best practices with respect to MoveIt,
```

  refer to `this blog post <https://picknik.ai/ros/robotics/docker/2021/07/20/Vatan-Aksoy-Tezer-Docker.html>`_

>   from Picknik's Vatan Aksoy Tezer and Brennard Pierce.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  from PickNik's Vatan Aksoy Tezer and Brennard Pierce.
```

> - `Here <https://hub.docker.com/r/moveit/moveit2/tags>`_ is a list of the available moveit2 docker images available.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- `Here <https://hub.docker.com/r/moveit/moveit2/tags>`_ is a list of the available MoveIt2 Docker images available. 
```

Reviewer 4: Perhaps it could help to add a bit more exposition on how to use these here, some thing like

> You can use any of the images in that link by substituting the second parameter in the script. `name_of_the_image`, with `moveit/moveit2:<tag_name>`, where `<tag_name>` is from the above link. The above example steps use image with the tag `galactic-source`.

Reviewer 3: Also maybe a small explanation of the tags here, particularly the only ones needed to be used by users are `release` and `source` tags.

Author: That's a good idea, I'll add that.

> How to Setup MoveIt 2 Docker Containers in Ubuntu

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
How to Set Up MoveIt 2 Docker Containers in Ubuntu
```

===================================================
This guide will provide a walkthrough on how to get a Docker container with MoveIt 2 dependencies set up quickly.
It includes a script that will get you up and running in MoveIt quickly!
This guide is intended for people who would like to have a separate environment for working with MoveIt up and running quickly \

> without having to do much configuring. In this guide, we will be setting up a ROS2 Galactic environment.

Reviewer 5: As this targets the main branch it would be really nice if this was for Ubuntu 22.04 and Rolling. If you make that switch this tutorial should also easily apply to Humble. Of course we can also backport this to Galactic as well.

Learning Objectives
-------------------

- How to setup a Docker environment using the provided script

Requirements
------------

- Ubuntu 20.04
- `Docker Installation for Ubuntu <https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/>`_
- `Nvidia drivers for Docker <https://docs.nvidia.com/datacenter/cloud-native/container-toolkit/install-guide.html#setting-up-nvidia-container-toolkit>`_

Steps
-----
1. Install Docker (a link is available in the Requirements section) and be sure to follow the `Linux Post Install <https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/linux-postinstall/#manage-docker-as-a-non-root-user>`_ instructions. If you do not complete these additional steps you will need to preface all ``docker`` commands with ``sudo``.

2. Open a terminal session and create an empty text file.

  .. code-block:: bash

>     mkdir -p ~/Docker/scripts

Reviewer 5: Would it be much more standard to just put this in `.local/bin` or some similar directory? Then you don't need to specify the full file path later... that or maybe you could create a repo with this file if you expect to update it in the future and people could put it in `~/opt` or something similar and then they could update it when you push updates.

    cd ~/Docker/scripts/

> 3.  Download the Docker script and make it executable

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
3.  Download the Docker script and make it executable.
```

  .. code-block:: bash

    wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ros-planning/moveit2_tutorials/how-to-docker-ubuntu/_scripts/start-docker.sh

>     chmod +x ~/Docker/scripts/start-docker.sh

Reviewer 5: I don't think you need the full file-path here as the first command will write this into the local directory.

4. Run the script.

  There are 3 parameters for the script:
      - ``name_of_the_container`` : this is the name you wish to give the created container. For this guide, we will be naming the container ``moveit2-galactic``.
      - ``name_of_the_image`` : if you are creating a fresh Docker container, provide the name of the Docker image here. For this guide, we will be using the image ``moveit/moveit2:galactic-source``. Further explanation of this parameter is provided in the ``Further Reading`` section.
      - ``using_gpu`` : if ``true``, the Docker will be run using Nvidia GPU drivers. By default, this value is true.

  To run the script and use Nvidia GPU drivers

  .. code-block:: bash

    ~/Docker/scripts/start-docker.sh moveit2-galactic moveit/moveit2:galactic-source

  If the above command fails, it is likely that Nvidia drivers cannot be used or are installed correctly. In which case, you can still proceed without using Nvidia drivers!

>   First, You'll need to remove the container you just created by running the following command:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  First, you'll need to remove the container you just created by running the following command:
```

  .. code-block:: bash

    ~/Docker/scripts/start-docker.sh moveit2-galactic moveit/moveit2:galactic-source false

  Running the script for the first time creates, starts, and executes the container ``moveit2-galactic``.

5. You should now be inside of your Docker container, in the workspace directory. You should now be able to start working with MoveIt!

  Whenever you wish to reenter your container, you can run the following command:

  .. code-block:: bash

    ~/Docker/scripts/start-docker.sh moveit2-galactic

Further Reading
---------------
- For more information about Docker best practices with respect to MoveIt,
  refer to `this blog post <https://picknik.ai/ros/robotics/docker/2021/07/20/Vatan-Aksoy-Tezer-Docker.html>`_
  from PickNik's Vatan Aksoy Tezer and Brennard Pierce.

- You can find a list of tagged images for the MoveIt 2 Docker container `here <https://hub.docker.com/r/moveit/moveit2/tags>`_.
  The tagged images coincide with ROS2 version releases. The ``release`` version of the container provides an environment in which MoveIt 2 is installed via the binaries.
  The ``source`` version of the Docker image will build MoveIt 2 from source.

>   You can use any of the images in that link by substituting the second parameter in the script. ``name_of_the_image``, with moveit/moveit2:<tag_name>, where ``<tag_name>`` is from the above link.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  You can use any of the images in that link by substituting the second parameter in the script, ``name_of_the_image``, with moveit/moveit2:<tag_name>, where ``<tag_name>`` is from the above link.
```
